## My Teacher Likes Keith Moon and *The Who*

By Jack Szwergold, May 25, 2015

Mr. Glass was cool. He was a physics teacher in high school but he also taught classes on computer programming. I had him as a teacher for computer programming and while he himself was cool, the class itself was awkward.

You see in the early 1980s, every other kid had some kind of oddball home computer at home. I had an Atari 400, some kids had Commodore VIC-20s, others even had TRS-80 computers from Radio Shack. A few had Apple ][ computers but they were the exceptions. They were the rich kids. But I digress: The computer class was awkward because while everyone had some kind of modern computer at home, we were being taught how to program in Fortran on punch cards.

These machines were past ancient, but that's what the NYC Board of Education gave the public schools to work with. And fairly horrible. Past the physical juggling one had to do to not only program the punch cards and keep them in order, since lots of kids had their own home computers at home, everyone already knew how to program in some proprietary version of Basic in some way. So cognitively it was like we all knew different dialects of English but then we came to school and had to learn some ancient, esoteric, Olde English variant. But Mr. Glass was open minded and flexible.

So since many kids had some kind of home computer at home, those kids—including me—would attempt to iron out the logic for homework assignments using whatever computer language we were most comfortable using at home. And when that was ironed out, we would attempt to translate what we did to Fortran before handing in assignments or tediously punching out punch cards in the school’s computer lab. A lot of times this method would work but Mr. Glass caught on to what was happening and was cool with it. So those times when things worked out on a home computer—but choked when translated to Fortran—Mr. Glass was cool with us showing him the work we did at home and he would grade us based on that.

But his flexibility went out the window as far as *The Who* went.

I learned about that on one of the many weekend trips I mad to Titus Oaks Records on Avenue U near Coney Island Avenue. It was a cool record store that sold some new stuff but sold tons of used records and tapes. Thanks to them I was able to score stuff like *The Police*’s “Regatta De Blanc” or *Rush*’s “Fly By Night” for $1.50 a pop on cassette; a serious bargain for a 1980s kid. I met up with a high school friend who lived nearby and we just headed over to the place to “crate dig” or whatever they called it back then.

While I was methodically searching the bins for anything new my pal found herself a copy of Roger Daltrey’s “Under a Raging Moon” LP. It was near mint since it was a promo copy and she was ecstatic about finding it. Me? Didn’t care too much because I found that whole “Under a Raging Moon” track to me overproduced and sappy.

Anyway, while I was flipping through LPs I looked an aisle or two over and noticed what could only be the back and hair of Mr. Glass. I was kind of stunned; the last time I saw some teachers out of class it was a bunch of Social Studies teachers walking past my building and ogling some of the neighborhood hookers during lunch break in high school. Or there was that one time I saw some junior high school teachers checking out gold chains some neighborhood low life was selling down the block. But this was different. Mr. Glass wasn’t being a lech or a creep; he was just browsing piles of LPs just like the rest of his students.

So I approached him and tepidly said hello; it was so awkward to approach an NYC public school teacher as a potential peer and not an authority figure. He was as shocked as me and said hello and we started to talk about music. He asked me what I was into and I mentioned *U2*, *The Police* and *Rush* and he winced a bit. Then my pal came over and we started to talk about her potential scores since she actually found some LPs that day. “Roger Daltrey?” Mr. Glass said, “What about *The Who*?” he said to nobody in particular. And I instantly responded, “Well yeah… I like *The Who* and *Led Zeppelin* and all that…” to which he responded by saying “Yeah, but which *Who* do you like?” And I was kind of dumbfounded… I mean I liked *The Who* what else did he need to know? “Well, I only care about *The Who* with Keith Moon. Now that was *The Who*. No idea what this current lineup is about anymore.” To which my pal pointed out that the title “Under a Raging Moon” was a tribute to Keith Moon which only made Mr. Glass wince a bit and say, “Yeah, it’s a tribute to Keith Moon but it’s really got nothing to do with Keith Moon himself,” as he passed the LP back to her.

We talked a bit more and decided to pay for what we got—or should I say what she got—and head out. Mr. Glass was still flipping through the stacks as he waved goodbye to us and we headed back home.

I headed back to my place and looked over the tracks on “Hooligans” or “The Who’s Greatest Hits”—don’t remember which one I had as a teenager; leaning towards “Hooligans”—and tried to figure out which tracks had Keith Moon on them or not and gave up after a while and just played the LP and enjoyed it for what it was. Pretty sure Keith Moon played on most of the tracks I liked at the time, but it would only be years later when I would realize that yes indeed, Keith Moon was amazing… And the main tracks I liked then—and still like now—featured Keith Moon on them in some way.

***

*My Teacher Likes Keith Moon and The Who (c) by Jack Szwergold. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*