## Starhawk (1977)

By Jack Szwergold

The first time I played *Star Hawk* was at some pizzeria on the Upper East Side or near Murray Hill or Kips Bay near the United Nations. My older brother was dragging me to some performance or some shit like that at the 92nd Street Y or something so we made a pit stop to get some food. Before we even entered the pizzeria, I spotted some store selling cool Japanese toys near where we parked and begged my brother to let me go in and check them out. He refused saying we were running late and we}d go there “Some other time…” or some bullshit like that so we just went to the pizzeria. When I walked inside the place, the pizzeria was like any other… But on one side there was this *Star Hawk* arcade game all the kids where hovering around. Nobody was playing it; they were just watching the “attract mode” screens. Me and my brother ordered some pizza and I made sure to finish my one measly slice before he did and asked, “Can I play the game over there?” He agreed but stated clearly, “We’re running late so make it quick.” I went over to the machine and started playing the game. It was basically trying to cash in on *Star Wars* with some endless trench run happening with random space ships popping up out of nowhere you had to shoot. The game kind of sucked, but it was fun to look at and even more fun with a group kids hovering around you. Soon, my brother was done and he came over and said gently, “We have to go…” but I was still playing… And doing pretty good at it as well. I kept on playing until he became belligerent about us having to leave to see whatever performance we were supposed to see and I basically left the machine in mid-game and let some other kids hovering around me play. It was good to see other kids smile and thank me, but that feeling disappeared as my brother rushed me angrily out of the shop so we could go to whatever this performance was. To this day I barely remember what it was; may it was *Mummenschanz*? Don’t know and don’t care since my brother’s behavior and anger wiped away most any joy I could have gotten from the performance that day.

***

*Starhawk (1977) (c) Copyright by Jack Szwergold; written on August 22, 2016. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*