## One Seat in One Row With Another Seat in Another Row
### Seeing *The Empire Strikes Back* for the First Time

By Jack Szwergold

My brother wanted to take me to see *The Empire Strikes Back* when it came out in 1980. I was excited for the film. So much so I even recorded reviews and commercials on an audio cassette tape from the TV. I also made sure to save money from my allowance to buy stuff at the theater. When I saw *Star Wars* in summer camp in 1977 I didn’t have enough money for a souvenir program or other tchotchkes some folks were selling on a table outside of the theater. Not this time. So the day arrived and we headed out to a movie theater on 86th Street in Manhattan to see *The Empire Strikes Back*.

Unlike *Star Wars* initial release in 1977, New York City theaters in 1980 were ready for *The Empire Strikes Back* and it was showing in more than one theater in Manhattan but none in Brooklyn.

Anyway we got to the theater and waited in line. As always, my brother was impatient and complained about the line, the crowd, the heat, the “bullshit”; basically anything. There was a shoe store right next to the theater and since he was into jogging back then—and the line wasn’t moving anyway—he told me to wait in line while he checked out sneakers. So I waited in line by myself.

A few minutes later the line started to move and people cheered; which was stunning to me since I never experienced anyone cheering simply because a line was moving before. But there was no sign of my brother. So I turned to the people behind me in line—a Hispanic family—and asked if they could hold my place in line; I would be right back. They nodded “yes” at me, and I ran off to the running shoe store.

I went into the store and found my brother. His immediate first response to my actions was to shout at me—in front of everybody in the store—when he saw me. “What are you stupid!?! Why did you leave the line!?!” I was in shock from him calling me stupid. He never said something that blunt and obnoxious to me—and about me—to my face before. But I was too excited about the movie to get too upset. I told him the line was moving and I said as confidently and clearly as I could, “Don’t worry. We can get back in the line.”

As we are walking back to our place in line, he still rambling indignantly about me stepping out of line and saying, “We can’t get back in line. Why did you do something so stupid!?!” He said the last part—where he yet again called me stupid—right as we got back to the line and in clear in earshot of everyone standing there.

The father of the Hispanic family that held my space overheard that as I was waving to him we were back and shouted straight back to my brother, “Hey! Don’t talk to him like that! You weren’t in line and he went to get you! We saw! We know!” My quickly brother fell silent and said something like “Okay… Okay…” under his breath as we all shuffled forward in line. This was the first—and only time—I ever remember a stranger standing up and saying something about my brother’s abusive behavior. It was amazing and felt like vindication.

So anyway, we walked up to the box office, got the tickets and walked into the theater. To say the place was crowded is an understatement; it was utterly packed to the gills. I had never seen anything like that before. My brother was asking about snacks but I was just eager to get a seat. We looked down the aisle and it was so crowded that there were no two seats next to each other anywhere for anyone.

Suddenly I spotted one seat in one row with another seat in another row behind it near the left hand center area of the theater. I pointed it out to my brother, and he understood what I was thinking. He could sit in one seat, and I would sit nearby in another. Still, he protested a bit about the separation and was insistent about about looking a bit more for seats that were next to each other, but the lights were going down and the curtain was opening so we had no choice. I remember him sitting down in the seat closer to the screen and me running to the other seat one row back, asking if it was taken and sitting down. My brother looked over his shoulder at me to see if things were fine, but once the movie started, all eyes were forward. And it was great.

I don’t know who the kid sitting next to me was other than he was black and we both really got into the film. Within minutes it was as if my brother wasn’t there and had not called me stupid a few minutes before. I was in another world with a group of like-minded people, which is what a great movie experience should be.

Outside of everyone cheering at the beginning of the film as each major character—including Darth Vader—was introduced again onscreen, the utterly best moment was during the lightsaber duel near the end of the film. Luke—after being blown out a window—pulls himself up on a catwalk, walks down a corridor and Darth Vader jumps out of nowhere, surprising him. Everyone in the theater gasped and the Hispanic lady behind me shouted “Oh shit!” and quickly covered her mouth just as me and the other kid turned around smiling at her sudden, uncontrolled cursing. The film ended and we all left.

It was crowded so I remember meeting up with my brother in the lobby. I counted the money in my pocket and looked around to see where I could blow it on *Star Wars* merchandise. I saw a merchandise table where an official Marvel comics souvenir program was hanging on a string—held in place by a clothespin—and started to walk towards it. I couldn’t afford a movie program when I first saw *Star Wars* in summer camp in 1977, but this time I was ready for mostly anything. Anything except my brother’s bullshit.

As I walked towards the souvenir table, my brother grabbed me by the shoulder and asked “What are you doing?” I said I wanted to buy a program and he was urging me not to. Why? His only excuse was the line and crowd and he had a point because the line and the crowd was ridiculous. But he also know I had money on me exactly for buying stuff like this. Regardless, the line, the crowd and the constant pestering won out. We left the theater without buying anything to remember the day.

We walked into the bright sunlight on 86th street and started to make our way towards Broadway. All the while, I’m looking at other kids with their programs, and am starting to regret the decision to leave the theater empty handed. Suddenly my brother notices something in a nearby garbage can. It was an official *The Empire Strikes Back* souvenir program with a piece of chewing gum stuck to the upper right area of the cover right over Han Solo’s head.

My brother takes it out of the trash, shows it to me and proudly says, “Look!” He ripped the gum off of the cover before giving it to me. The insides were clean and barely touched. Someone—a rich kid?—must have tossed it in the trash for some reason. It was kind of nice to have it, but holding it in my hands felt utterly pathetic.

My family had so little in the world thanks to the Holocaust wiping out our past and poverty strangling our present. Pretty much everything we had in the world fit into a tiny, tenement apartment. But every now and then everyone—including a kid like me—could save up some money to buy something simple and nice. This was a special day and I purposefully saved money for this special day. And here my brother decides that my asserting my individual power as a kid on this special day should be undermined. Giving me a program from the garbage was an insult; he knew our father would have let me buy what I wanted with my own money and not interfered.

Regardless, after finding that *The Empire Strikes Back* souvenir program in the garbage we walked and stopped somewhere for a snack. I got a can of soda from a newsstand but realized as we were walking that I needed a straw. Instead of backtracking to the newsstand a block away, I went to the open window of a nearby pizzeria to take a straw from a dispenser cup in the window. The second I grabbed a straw, the guy behind the counter violently latched onto my forearm, screamed at me that I didn’t buy anything and made me drop it.

This is the way kids got treated in good old New York City; we were all street trash and potential shoplifters in shopkeeper’s eyes. And yeah, I didn’t buy anything but this was a straw and most places didn’t make a big deal about anyone taking one. It shocked me and I started to openly cry. My brother came over to see what was happening but did absolutely nothing to comfort me or say anything to the guy from the pizza shop who grabbed my arm. Instead my brother took the opportunity to rub salt in the wound by saying, “This is not my problem! You wanted to steal a straw? You deal with it!”

With that said and done my brother kept on walking and I stood there—stunned—in front of the pizza place. I didn’t have a straw, but I stopped crying enough to open the can of soda, drink about half of it in one gulp—so I could safely walk with it—and then ran down the block to catch up with him.

We took the subway back to my home in Brighton Beach, with him occasionally saying some air-filling bullshit about the movie. I just nodded and said “Yes” or whatever felt appropriate until the hour long trip home was over. The second the subway doors opened at Ocean Parkway I got off the train, ran down the stairs of the station and headed home ahead of my brother. I could hear him shout “Wait! Where are you going?” as I ran but didn’t care. This station—and this neighborhood—was my territory. I was finally home again.

After the standard greetings and niceties, I went to my room and locked the door and read the program while laying on the floor with some *Star Wars* action figures. After a while my brother knocked on my door. I opened it and he said he was leaving and talked about all of the the fun we had. I said, “Yes!” And stood up to wave goodbye to him as he finally left. When the apartment door closed, and the locks were locked, I went back into my room and left the door wide open again. Read some more of the program, played with my toys and soon fell asleep. When all was said and I done, I was finally relaxed for the first time in hours and at peace enough the explore the *Star Wars* universe on my own again.

***

*One Seat in One Row With Another Seat in Another Row: Seeing Empire Strikes Back for the First Time (c) Copyright by Jack Szwergold; written May 25, 2015. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0).*