# Biden Will Only Get My Vote If He Successfully Completes These Feats of Strength

As a lifelong American and fan of democracy, I too was disappointed with Joe Biden’s lackluster debate performance on June 27, 2024. President Joe Biden failed to convey the strength and fortitude I perosnally expect from a President of the United States of America.

It pains me to say this, but I hearby state I will personally withhold my vote for him until he fulfills at least 2 to 3 of the feats of strength outlined below. We, as a nation, need a strong President and I believe each of these feats of strength would prove President Biden’s ability to handle a second term in office.

* **Drags a Train or a Truck with his Teeth**: Joe Biden gets to pull a significantly weighed down train or truck with his teeth. His choice. He has to pull it for one yard. Kamala Harris and Jill Biden can pump up the crowds.
* **Cannonball is Shot at his Stomach**: Much like venerated vaudeville star, Frank Richards, Joe Biden will allow a cannonball to be shot at his stomach at fairly close range. The contest is won if he survives the blow and walks away on his own two feet.
* **Base Jumps Off of the Freedom Tower**: While a band plays the Star Spangled Banner, Joe Biden will base jump off of the highest point of the Freedom Tower in NYC; 1,776 feet up. If successful he will gracefully land — via parachute — to the ground below.
* **Wrestles a Grizzly Bear or a Shark**: The choice of bear or shark is up the President Biden himself. While Biden will most likely be injured or scathed in the ensuing battle, victory will be judged if he can pummel the bear or shark into submission.
* **Arm Wrestes Donald Trump**: Joe Biden and Donald Trump go at it in the classic head to head battle between men. Mano a Mano. Best of three wins.
* **Putting Food all Over his Body and Allows Raccoons to Eat Off of His Body**: I once saw a social media post of a woman in San Francisco, California — or Portland, Oregon — who did this and it looked really cool and harrowing. I think Biden can and should attempt such a stunt as Kamala Harris and Jill Biden cheers him on.
* **Crush a Full Can (Soda, Beer, Beans, etc…) With One Hand**: Simple as that. Joe Biden grabs a can of some food item — soda, beer, beans, etc… — and crushes it with one hand.
* **Bends a Steel Bar with His Bare Hands and/or Teeth**: As stated, Joe Biden will grab a steel bar and bends it with his hands or teeth. Bonus points are given for using his teeth.
* **Tears a Deck of Cards in Two with his Bare Hands**: Possibly the easiest feat of strengh: Grabs a deck of cards and tears them in half with his bare hands.
* **Juggle a Set of Weights**: Weight can be determined, but perhaps a set of 20 pound or 50 pound weights. He should be able to juggle them, without dropping them, for 2-3 minutes.
* **Drive Nails into a Piece of Wood with His Bare Hands**: The human hammer! Biden grabs a piece of wood and drives nails into the wood with his bare hands. Time is not a factor, but he should be able to drive in at least 6 nails with his bare hands.
* **Carry a Piano Up a Set of Stairs**: Look out Laurel and Hardy! You’ve got some competition! Biden should be able to carry a piano up a set of stairs. To be fair, he should be able to carry them up a set of 3 landings separated by 8 stairs a piece for breathing roo.
* **Tears a Phone Book in Half**: Much like tearing a pack of cards in half, Biden should be able to tear a decent sized phone book in half. Since phone books aren’t as common — or as big — as they once were, tearing a copy of David Foster Wallace’s “Infinite Jest” or Robert Caro’s the “Power Broker” in two would count as well.
* **Eats a Can of Spinach, Punches Donald Trump and Does 20 Push-ups in the Oval Office**: Just like Popeye, Biden will sit and eat a can of spinach in the oval office. When he finishes, he will stand and take off his shirt to reveal he new pumped up “Popeye” physique. Then, a Donald Trump impersonator enters the oval office, says some nonsense and is immediately knocked out by Biden. Finally, Joe Biden hits the ground and does a series of push ups; some one handed and a few with claps mixed in.

